Now that we spend so much time on going back and forth and loading data,
let's move into the other big navigation concept we see in mobile but also in web apps
and that would be a side drawer and Ionic ships with a built-in side drawer which you can easily add to
your app.
Now a side drawer of course is that thing you trigger typically with that hamburger icon in your pop navigation
bar or your toolbar and then you tap that and
the side drawer opens up,
that is how that typically works
and in that side drawer, you can have links to other pages, other areas in your application and you can
also have other utility buttons, like for example logging the user out which might also navigate away
but which mainly does something different.
Let's see how we implement this in Ionic.
Now I'm not getting tired of mentioning this,
you can always dive into the official docs of course and there, you'll find this menu area which covers the
ion menu which is how you set up such a side drawer and you find detailed instructions on how you
may configure it there and how it works together with all these other components there
but of course, let's now do that together.
Now where do I want to have that hamburger icon? That's the first thing we have to ask ourselves and
the answer is for me in this application,
the hamburger icon should be found on that discover page here, it should also be found in the toolbar
of the offers page here
and I also then want to find it on that bookings page because the bookings page is actually the page
we'll navigate to through the side menu.
So basically put in other words, I'll add that hamburger menu in this app and basically all the places
where I have no back button
but of course that's just how it is in this app, might be totally different story for your application.
Now how do we add that menu then
because we first need the menu before we can add any form of button that opens it? You add that menu
in your root component as a sibling to your root ion router outlet.
Now actually, you can configure multiple menus in an Ionic app and you can even control into which
content,
so into which ion content object they should render.
But typically, you use that main ion content or in the case of this iconic Angular app with the ion router
outlet, you use that main outlet and that basically means whichever page is loaded through that outlet,
the drawer, the side menu which opens up will be rendered as a animated overlay across that page on
top of that page
and this ensures that the side drawer doesn't get hidden behind some page or behind some toolbar or anything
like that.
So inside of ion app, next to ion router outlet, you therefore add ion menu, that is your wrapper
around your entire side drawer.
Now that ion menu now takes a side attribute and you can set this to start or you can set this to end
to define from where this should slide in.
Now it's not named left or right,
just as you didn't name the buttons in the toolbar, the slot there left or right, because start typically
is on the left but depending on the device we're talking about or the region in the world you're using
this, start might actually be on the right of the screen and therefore start simply means what typically
is treated as the start in your region and on your device and on most devices and regions, that would
be on the left.
Now you also should add the main attribute here, to the ion router outlet because Ionic will internally
look for that main attribute when it tries to open that menu when you toggle it and I'll show you how
to toggle it later.
So main should be added here and then this menu will render itself into whichever page is loaded here
and it will open from the left, thanks to side start or it will open from the start
I should say. Now inside of that ion menu, you can have an ion header and it's the same ion header
component you already know from your pages. So the ion header is not limited to those pages
and the same is true for the ion toolbar which you can add in there, which could then in turn have an
ion title and here
I'll simply add the title of my application and I'll name it PairBnB because we have mostly places
that are for couples, for pairing up with other people,
I don't know, something like this.
So PairBnB is what we have,
that is the toolbar and now we also have ion content, so you can already see the content you have inside
ion menu is basically the same content you would have in a page. You have the ion header and then you
have the ion content, oh and the ion content should be outside of the ion header of course. So ion
header and ion content are inside the ion menu and inside the ion content, you can now really render
whatever you want,
could be cards, could be a list, could be images, you can use any element in there. You can use paragraphs
and divs in there, you can use whatever you want in here but of course typically, you want to render something
that looks nice.
So here I will render an ion list with a couple of list items. Now which list items would that be?
Well the first item will get an icon here with a name of business maybe, I find that this is a nice icon for
the purpose I have here
but of course you can use any icon you want from ionicons.com and the slot will be start so
that this is on the left of that ion item and in the ion label, so in the text for this item, I then
want to have find or maybe discover places. That takes us to the discover places
page, so to the places page with the tabs.
We also want the second item and here
I'll use a checkbox outline, also slot start which is for your bookings, so which leads you to your bookings
and with that I of course mean the bookings you made, not the bookings for places you're offering.
And last but not least, I'll add another ion item which will become important later and that will be for
logging out,
so the name here will be exit,
slot is start
and on the label, so for the text, I'll just have logout.
So these are the three items I want to have in there.
Now one thing you can do on the ion item, you can set lines to none so that there are no lines between the
items which I personally find to be a bit nicer in the side drawer
but that is up to you.
This is the finished side drawer but of course we can't see it,
so let me next show you how to open and close it, toggle it and how to navigate from inside of it.